14:34:05 Jen Lawson, she is the water resources manager for the city of Ann Arbor for the almost 10 years now. Hard to believe and Jen has a background in land use and environmental planning, and she also got her master's in landscape architecture from university
14:34:32 Michigan so Michigan connection. And we also have Sarah page with us Sarah is the drinking water quality manager for the city of environment, just over two and a half years, or turn right around there.
14:34:41 And Sarah has a PhD in environmental and aquatic chemistry from the University of Minnesota, and she has studied a bunch of different stuff including our global blooms in Lake Erie, and also done some consulting work on emerging contaminants.
14:34:57 So, these are lots of questions that's come up from the group so they'll have plenty of good questions for you as I'm sure. So with that, I'll turn it over to Jen and she's going to give us a little overview of the water system.
14:35:50 But it's drinking water. It's stormwater it's sanitary sewage and it's the natural river that runs through the city of Ann Arbor, or here on River. There's a lot of interconnection with those waters.
14:36:11 I'm going to talk more about the, the infrastructure, the pipes, the things you can kind of see or the things that are underground. Sarah is going to come in and talk about how we use the water how we make the water and then more of those as as Jason
14:36:42 So the city of Ann Arbor is very fortunate to have one of the leading stormwater programs in the entire Great Lakes region, not just in stormwater management, but in green infrastructure bioengineering and utilizing stormwater more as an amenity, as opposed
14:37:08 Many times when people look at the city of Ann Arbor they think of the city of Ann Arbor with its freeways, the major roads kind of going through some people maybe think about the river flowing through it.
14:37:23 But I think about it this way I think about it with not just the river, but all of those creeks and tributaries that flow through and collect all of the stormwater runoff from our community, going a step further, we have several Creek sheds in the city
14:37:42 And I had alluded a little bit to different jurisdictions, some of these Creek sheds are actually what are called county drainage districts, which means the county water source Commissioner's Office also has a say in how to maintain or and or manage those
14:37:58 So specifically in the city of Ann Arbor we have Allen Creek, which is under downtown, it's over 50% impervious, and if you think about all the buildings and streets and all the roads that you see in downtown Ann Arbor.
14:38:25 You have Malik's Creek on the southern end of town that's the largest Creek shed in town, it's about 40% of the land area, and it's about 40% impervious again. So there's a lot of rain water that falls that goes directly to the river, without any treatment
14:38:32 Traver Creek and honey Creek and swift run creating are also county drains, so they have established county drain districts and there's a multiple jurisdictional management, the ones that are a little bit unique Miller's Creek is not the county drain
14:39:06 But when it comes to management of who owns those creeks waterways pipes underground. The city of Ann Arbor owns a majority of them sitting in over actually owns all of the green ones showing up on the screen.
14:39:57 The city's stormwater has a majority of the system that was built before the Vietnam War. In fact, 20% was even installed before the Korean War. We have some pipes and ground that were that are over 120 years old.
14:40:44 That's not including all of the open channels, and the drains and the creeks and the ditches, because those all also can be stormwater as well, if you include all of those numbers were responsible for 541 miles of pipe.
14:42:02 That also means that all of their rainwater goes through a treatment facility, before it gets dumped into the river. We don't have that in Ann Arbor. Every drop of rain that falls and goes into the storm drain goes directly to the Huron River, or it goes
14:43:59 Drinking water is another system that I had mentioned, this is the drink yes is actually on Madison I believe this is installation of new drinking water main that was being installed probably four or five years ago looking at the guys that are in the
14:44:45 These guys actually are walk, working on a water main break, but it's the same yellow truck it's the same Public Works guys all of our guys are cross trained and so they can work on any of those utility infrastructure projects at any time.
14:45:09 What's really important though when we think about drinking water in the city of Ann Arbor, is that it provides a part of the community and the culture Zingerman's uses it for stuff at their deli many of our beer breweries use it.
14:45:22 We use it for medical research we use it, the University uses it for laboratory. And it also provides all of the water for football games. There's a big drastic jump on football Saturday's, when we look at water usage in town.
14:45:44 We can talk about numbers a little bit, I told you guys I kind of look at the numbers in the data behind things are drinking water mains again this is the distribution system this is not all of the smaller little pipes to that go to hydrants and that
14:46:06 That's all of the red that you see what's not included in this map is the university, whose University also has a drinking water distribution system that they maintain and manage and it does is connected to our system.
14:47:23 What's interesting about water distribution specifically drinking water distribution system is that there are different materials used, which you see much more of a difference than those other utilities I mentioned before 1920s it was solid cast iron.
14:48:30 We also have to manage this at the city of Ann Arbor. That's where we come in. So the group that I work in as the systems planning unit, and its engineers and scientists that are collaborative and holistic in their planning.
14:48:48 We're a group of people who look at the entire system using data using framework models using GIS geospatial information, as well as public engagement, and that when you think about it from a scientific standpoint doesn't sound as exciting, but so much
14:49:10 They think a lot about how their water tastes. What's the pressure of the water coming out of their faucet is the water clean enough to go fishing swimming kayaking boating, and especially in Ann Arbor, they're very engaged very engaged in community issues.
14:49:33 So thinking about data, we have instantaneous USGS stream gauges, that are around town minute much, much of this data is available online off of the city's website and so it's all publicly available data we don't charge for it.
14:50:11 We also have rain gauges around town that are 15 minute tipping buckets. So it's exactly what it sounds like it's a little tiny bucket in five different locations including on top of City Hall, that every 15 minutes it dumps.
14:50:24 And we measure how much water was in that bucket. and we can pinpoint, we can look at entire days, weeks, months, or we can see how intense a storm was or what the duration of a specific storm was because we recognize that the rain does not follow the
14:50:40 same in the city of Ann Arbor, sometimes you get a ton of rain on the north side and no rain on the south side. Sometimes all the rain stops at the west side and it's completely dry on the east side, but we don't know that when you listen to CHANNEL SEVEN
14:51:09 We've been doing a lot of comparisons with flow monitoring, specific to stormwater and hydrology graphs to look at how upstream improvements for development, or for city projects or for private projects can reduce the flow or reduce the downstream impacts.
14:51:34 We don't do this for every storm water project but we do it for ones that we know are going to be a large capital investment, or if there's a very very keen public interest in it with the Watershed Council, or with one of our other groups and groups,
14:52:27 The way we get this information for impervious areas is every three years, we have a flyover done of the city with color infrared photography, looking for impervious cover, and leave off conditions so the tree canopy cover, and we can calculate that by
14:52:47 personal, so we overlay this data so we can start looking at where are there are improvements are where are there opportunities for improvements, as I mentioned, Ellen Creek and melons Creek, or the highest by far.
14:53:05 Can't take out brighter wood mall we can't take out some of these larger apartment developments. But what we can do is look for opportunities within those developments maybe their stormwater islands within a parking lot, maybe it's a green roof, green
14:54:08 I could talk an hour about drinking water I could talk now about stormwater. If you have further questions. We're certainly available, but I am going to turn it over to Sarah, so she can kind of hone in on some of the specific issues around drinking water.
14:55:28 For most of my PhD work, and then ended up somehow doing a postdoc here at the University of Michigan, actually in this building with rose Corey, looking at harmful algal blooms in Lake Erie so I was out on Lake Erie.
14:55:45 In 2014, when the algal bloom was so bad that it shut down the Toledo water intake, and I was, I mean it was literally out on the boat taking samples, thinking, there's this whole community that doesn't have water because of this.
14:56:30 And really found the area of emerging contaminants to be fascinating, so I ended up sort of specializing in emerging contaminants and optimizing water treatment processes for emerging contaminants.
14:56:48 It ended up that I wanted to actually be able to make my own decisions as a consultant what you, you can do the best work that you can, and then it's totally up to your client, if they actually do anything about it.
14:58:35 We soften the water and I'll show a process diagram on the next slide, but one of the things that we're that I'm actually very proud of is that we are constantly monitoring our source water, the treatment process and then the water out in the distribution
14:58:54 system to make sure that the water that we, the water that we're producing and that we're providing to our customers is safe so we take almost 180,000 discrete chemical measurements every single year.
14:59:09 So every hour of every day we're taking measurements. We also have a lot of online instruments so that doesn't actually even include sort of any of the online, like turbid meters and flow meters, things like that.
14:59:36 The way that I think we could. I think that there are many issues that we face and we have the information, but we need more data science tools, actually, to, to be able to process the data.
15:00:01 I'm looking at our treatment process. We have to stage softening so the river, the river water goes through both stages of softening, and the well water primarily goes through, only the second stage of softening.
15:00:20 the reason that it's really important that the river goes through both stages of softening is that that's one of the ways that we really clean the water we remove all of the particles we're removing bacteria, viruses through that softening stage.
15:01:06 So our water is very hard and that's actually the primary reason that the, the Ann Arbor established a water treatment plant because they were taking well water and injecting it straight into the system and it was basically plugging everything up because
15:01:54 The other thing about ozone is that pretty much reacts with everything and so you get a residual for about 10 minutes. So it's not a long lasting disinfection but it is a disinfection that gives us the basically kills the bacteria and virus and Cryptosporidium
15:02:16 Then we have biologically active regular activated carbon filters and the reason that these filters are biologically active is partially because bacteria really love carbon that's like a really great media for them to grow on so actually any carbon filter
15:02:48 And so, if you don't remove those before you send the water out into the distribution system you end up having a lot of bacteria growing in your water pipes, which are for obvious reasons is not desirable.
15:03:03 So we have these biologically active carbon filters which I'll talk a little bit more about later but I like to think of these filters as the heart and soul of our process so they're working for us and that they're physically streaming the water.
15:03:18 They're also chemically absorbing compounds like the carbon is a really good media for absorbing things. And then they have the bacteria that are also removing removing compounds and eating things so that is our filters and then as I mentioned previously,
15:03:37 the ozone disinfection only last up until the filters, and then we have this water that has been filtered but we need to disinfect it before we send it out into the pipes because it needs to still be safe to drink up to 10 days later when it gets to customers
15:04:04 And that's the disinfectant that we use it has a lot of benefits if you do it right, it's tasteless. So, Detroit. On the other hand, uses pre chlorine and so a lot of, you can really tell the difference.
15:04:18 Honestly between the two if you do a side by side smell test. The Detroit water is going to smell a little bit more like a swimming pool and in our birds water should really smell like nothing.
15:05:26 MTV of that capacity and that's partly because we need to be able to treat water to the highest possible demand in the hottest possible year with the least amount of rain and also there's fires.
15:05:41 Then you have. We have a bunch of storage tanks around the city, you probably seen our two water towers there's one out by County Farm Park, and then one on North Campus, we do sell to silo township and in Arbor Township.
15:06:04 And that when you are distributing water. The best thing is for the water to flow downhill by gravity so that's part of the reason that the water treatment plant is located up on water Hill it's the second tallest spot in the city so we're able to feed
15:06:18 that whole central central downtown district, just with gravity the water just flows out of the treatment plant, but for all of these other locations we actually have to pump the water to increase the water pressure to serve to serve those areas.
15:06:37 So that's sort of the overview of the water of water treatment and now I want to get into two emerging contaminants. The first one is one for dioxane, and this is a, this, I would just like to point out we have actually a lot of information available
15:07:14 that's really just not my area of expertise what I'm here to talk about is how potentially one for dioxin would impact the drinking water, not how it impacts, just sort of the the water in general.
15:08:50 So that is the fear with drinking water The thing about groundwater is that it moves really slowly so the best estimate is that it would be at least 50 years before the plume would hit the river.
15:09:07 But the great thing is that the water treatment plant is actually really well positioned to be able to handle it. So, even just with our current treatment process we've done tests, and we can remove up to about 70 to 80% of anyone for dioxane that's in
15:10:30 We would expect that that needs to be used for the next 50 to 75 to 100 years and so as we go into that project we will definitely be looking at what what would happen if we had to treat for one for docs thing.
15:11:29 And the reason that there's so many of these and they're used in a lot of products, is that they have really great chemical properties they're, they're sort of resistant to oil and resistant to water so they're used in nonstick cookware they're using
15:11:47 And then they're also using a lot of industrial application so firefighting foam metal plating and other processes. So, even in some dental floss just, you know, it glides really well it's probably got p FOS on it honestly.
15:12:03 But the reason that we're concerned about these is that these are their stable and they don't degrade the carbon Florian bond is really one of the strongest bond that exists, which is part of the reason that these are great to us.
15:12:32 And we're still. This is an active area of research we're still learning about health impacts but some of the ones that have been studied for the longest we know may have may interfere with hormone function.
15:12:44 They might cause your cholesterol to increase they will increase certain types of cancer risks, and they will likely impact your immune system. So, these are compounds that we are concerned about.
15:13:04 Right now, the filtration with carbon is the best way to remove these p FOSS compounds from water, and we've been using jz filtration, since 1989 so even before we knew that this was an issue, we've been using the best available technology to remove them
15:13:25 And just a note, different types of carbon absorb chemicals at different rates. So that's one thing that has been very important for us is that we're looking at what is the best type of carbon to us in our filters, so that we can remove p for the best.
15:14:31 And we've been doing active research. So we're really addressing p FOS very actively. And one of the things to note is that actually just this summer Michigan published limits for these compounds so we now have seven different drinking water limits for
15:15:12 Maybe some of the worst health impacts they're the most bio a cumulative and so you can see that their limits are in the eight to 16. parts per trillion rain and apart petroleum is one drop in an Olympic sized swimming pool, so we're talking very small
15:15:37 And so you can see that certainly the concentration fluctuate in the river, which is one of the reasons that have having the river be the source of PS actually makes this more complicated because we don't.
15:16:01 But you can see that, sort of, in this time range. We were really actively addressing our, the type of carbon in our filters and increasing the amount that we change out, and we've basically gone to non detects in the drinking water for these two compounds
15:16:39 And these are the concentrations that we currently have in our drinking water so even the two that we do detect for orders of magnitude below what the limit is one thing that I'm sure you'll note is that some of these have limits of six and some of these
15:17:09 It really doesn't bio accumulates so when you ingest it, it sort of goes through you, a lot faster than this one here that PFNA which has a much longer halfway, so that's why you have sort of this this wide array of maximum contaminant limit, but, um,
15:17:51 So, I guess based on what I just told you that I could have 400,000, parts per trillion of one compound, and it would be basically the same amount of risk as six parts per trillion of a different compounds, adding all these numbers together doesn't actually
15:19:15 we're currently doing actually after research to figure out how we can remove those shorter chain compounds. Luckily, they're not as bio cumulative so the health impacts are not going to be as great.
15:19:27 Um, but obviously we want to do the best weekend to protect public health and so we're working on optimizing our treatment so this is actually a master student but I've had working with me for the past year and a half and she's been looking at different
15:19:58 We know most of the sources for these compounds in our watershed and in fact there's one primary source which is a metal player that that discharges through an industrial pretreatment permit to wastewater treatment plant wastewater treatment processes
15:21:03 We've been looking at wastewater because one of the primary sources of our wastewater is the drinking water so we know that that P FOSS is, you know, moving through the state of Michigan has been doing a lot of work on p FOS and fish and foam and we've
15:21:29 And one of our, I guess, proudest stories is that we really proactively reached out to our fire department and talked with them and help them to identify a type of form that doesn't actually have fluorine in it.
15:21:46 And so before really anything happened at the state level, our fire department had already switched to this flooring free foam. And they manifest, they sent all of their flooring containing foam off as hazardous waste.
15:22:01 We also worked with in our watersheds to talk with other fire departments to talk with them about why fluorine and firefighting phones is problematic, and that they could switch, and we've done our job pretty well, educating wise.
15:22:20 And so now, there have been several instances where there's been a car fire where they need to use theoretically they need to use this type of phone, and they've contacted other fire departments are contacting our fire department to ask us to use our
15:22:35 phone on the fire because there's a chance that the water will end up in here on River. So, we've really been, we're not just sort of saying we've fixed to the drinking water we're okay we're really focused on holistically, dealing with this, and the
15:23:15 This is the water treatment plant manager and he testified in front of a committee about p FOS, and we've also been doing a lot of outreach with the media so sort of taking a step back from science a little bit, it's important to have really good science
15:23:31 and data but also if you can't communicate your, your message you, you may as well not have all of your science and data because in the end we need our customers to support us and we we want people to feel good about drinking the water that we've spent
15:25:31 a lot of like bottled water, they'll drink from that and I actually know about this whole process and you know we live on campus. Just like curious if you know anything that doesn't do anything.
15:26:03 I actually had I've run into some houses where they decided that they wanted a whole house filter. And then were really upset that there was a lot of like bacteria growing everywhere because turns out when you, when the water is not disinfected it bacteria
15:26:19 will grow, that's just the way it goes. So, I'm honestly, removing of chemicals and the filter is likely not any better than the 26 Industrial size filter that we use on a daily basis of the water treatment plant.
15:26:40 However, I will say that though, the one time that I do recommend people use household filters as if they're concerned about lead in their plumbing. So, this would be a banner has removed, really, all of the lead.
15:27:07 To minimize any sort of lead coming out and all of the data shows that we're doing a good job but for sure, in some of these old houses there's lead solder there's lead, lead Foster, I mean lead and faucets and so if that's if that's a concern but you
15:28:36 And one question, and the older pipes that we used to use, you had mentioned how they were older and thicker and they're made of a better quality so they tend to last longer, um, do we purposely build with less quality materials.
15:29:05 So, what I understand your question is, are the pipes we're using less of less quality manufacturing processes have changed over 100 years. So it's not necessarily that we're looking at a lesser quality, because the pipes are still doing their job.
15:29:23 What we're running into is these pipes that were put in over 100 years ago maybe we're just have a thicker wall, and they just last longer. They're still providing the service that they're required for they're still distributing they're still conveying.
15:29:39 It's just the management type is a little bit different now because they're all of these different thicknesses of pipes in the ground. I would not say there are lesser quality I just say I would just say they have a shorter life span.
15:30:10 Um, so you had mentioned imperviousness and how it was, um, I mean, my understanding is just that it means to not allow water to flow, can you explain what you meant by that in the context of the city's watershed.
15:30:23 Does that mean we have a lot of stagnant water for that, like, part isn't necessarily allowing or not allowing water to flow imperviousness is allowing water to infiltrate back into the ground.
15:30:38 So if you think about a lawn versus a parking lot of parking lots going to be 100% impervious it's rock hard water is not going to soak into it back into the groundwater recharging our groundwater resources, whereas a lawn.
15:31:17 I got a question for you. Jen, which was, you know, one of the things we hear about climate change is like heavier rain halls like more concentrated and I'm wondering, like how that how that change in precipitation patterns impacting planning around some
15:31:56 Because of our relationship with the University of Michigan and Lisa and the Great Lakes research facilities we've been kind of ahead of the game, looking at how to adapt our practices for climate mitigation.
15:32:31 Um, it's really interesting because we with the research facilities that we have, we've been able to look at how rainfall has changed in the last hundred years, specific to the Ann Arbor region, which is really good because it's essentially a micro point
15:32:57 What we have been seeing is more rain quicker, but maybe not as often. So we're having to design our systems to hold more water, but not for a really long time because it's going to infiltrate back into the soil or enter into our storm water system at
15:33:18 a slower rate. We don't want to overwhelm our systems. So it's not always building a bigger pipe, it's building, storage, and we've incorporated those design parameters and criteria into our stormwater standards.
15:33:35 So when a developer comes in and designs a new stormwater management system, or when we build a new road and put in a new storm water pipe. We are Designing to mitigate or adapt our practices to mitigate and address the more intense storms.
15:34:04 It's just that we've changed the philosophy of how we manage stormwater, and we don't build a bigger pipe and push it to our neighbors downstream because that's not only the not that's not the right thing to do.
15:34:14 It's not a nice thing to do, but we recognize that treating storm water where it falls, is the most beneficial for the environment and most beneficial for the community as well as the water quality in there in the community.
15:34:41 lockdown and whatnot. I'm wondering if you all have any data, like, I'm just curious, personally, how did this summer go I know it was really hot and dry and you see like a notable uptick in use.
15:35:46 But if you flip it and just focus on residential, we saw, at least from Erin irrigation standpoint we saw an uptick, and people aren't taking more showers I mean hopefully they're still taking a shower at home, I don't know, maybe they took lesser, I
15:36:19 So there's a lot of businesses downtown and office parks around the area and they're not using water schools are closed, so their husband actually some interesting water quality related things that we've seen so normally.
15:36:39 There are. So, for example, up by skyline. High School there's skyline normally pulls a lot of water and there's some neighborhoods up there where their water is getting older, basically, and they're having, maybe.
15:36:56 Like, if the water gets really old it starts having a little bit of a smell and we've just seen more of that this year then maybe we have in previous years, next to these schools where the neighborhood is normally a flow through to the school and without
15:37:20 Luckily, not like well in in our reviews, a disinfectant. That's actually really good for water being stagnant it last longer, and also come back to a specific type of pathogen that likes to grow and stuff stagnant water is called Legionella.
15:37:37 And so that's one of the things that other cities were fairly concerned about is all these buildings that were shut out for three months. No, are used and then people come back into them and the plumbing.
15:37:57 I ran water like water consumption numbers from last spring. And this spring, and then I calculated. I pulled out all of the businesses that were using 25 or like 50 or less percent of the water from the same time last year so places that had had greater
15:39:46 Just because I think, Sarah is kind of alluded to this is like there's often think about the logistics and some of the science in terms of managing the systems and and that's certainly super important, but you know the example of the fact that you all
15:40:27 I just think that that was a great thing to emphasize, and probably not one that a lot of people working in the positions that you have, get a lot of experience with before you start that right after the fact.
15:40:58 I worked with the community in Oakland County. I worked as a consultant for many Oakland County communities doing the same kind of work. And if we had a public meeting about a project, maybe one person would show up.
15:41:11 Maybe, and usually it was somebody who lived right on the project and they wanted to make sure that the playground wasn't destroyed, even though we weren't touching the playground we were working on the road in front of our house in in our, we just had
15:41:24 actually last Thursday. We're building a regional detention pond over near silo church and I 94. We had 25 people show up for a, an outdoor field walk, just to let just to see where the pond was going to go.
15:41:46 But what I think it's not just this community reacting it's that I also think we push a lot of information out. We are very informative we're very proactive and in transparency almost, what is it that we're doing, why are we doing it.
15:43:00 So I spent, you know, eight or nine hours a day on a boat. I'm taking. So, um, I was working with Noah and global and we were out on this little old Coast Guard boat we get up super early drive down to Toledo.
15:43:19 I wouldn't drive because I would already be taking my motion sickness medication that made me kind of groggy but anyways this is maybe this is personal to me, obviously, other people did feel work and had a great experience.
15:43:44 And we would go to each of those points, and there were probably five different groups that were working on this and so each of them would have like a different parameter that they would be measuring they would lower songs.
15:43:58 I was taking water from different depths, using like a pair of Celtic pump and a tube. And then I would take all of that water down below deck, and I would be mad I was measuring hydrogen peroxide so I did a lot of very, like, high petting 100 micro leader
15:44:54 So, I do remember, I was, we, we had one of our designated weekly field days that when the Toledo water intake was shut down and I remember driving down that morning, and all of the cars, sort of going we're like trucks pickup trucks that had a bunch
15:45:51 Because of this, like one moment where they weren't quite prepared enough, and they had to issue this don't drink the water advisory and so I think for me, that's a really that has been something that I have taken to heart because you don't get
15:46:11 you basically get one shot. And if you if you mess it up it takes years and years and years to rebuild public trust and so that sort of deviated from the question about Lake Erie but but basically we would be out on the boat, taking samples and then bring
15:47:14 The storm water system collects the runoff from the university properties. And sometimes it discharges to city stormwater. Sometimes it discharges directly to a county dream, and sometimes it discharges directly to waters of the state.
15:47:48 The University have what's called an MS for permit from the state actually comes from the federal stormwater regulations, but it's a permit that allows that entity to discharge stormwater ms for stands for municipal separate storm sewer system, I had
15:48:10 But we caught our ms for permit the city and the university both partner, because it's the same community that we all have to work within. They just have regulation or jurisdiction over their discharge points we have regulation over our discharge points.
15:48:34 There's flooding on campus there's flooding in this city city streets run through campus so there's a little bit of a mix. But at the end of the day, the ultimate discharge point for all of us as the here on river, and we recognize that.
15:49:13 Additionally, so there are hydrants that are used are owned by the University on their own. There's distribution lines that are on their own, or actually working right now with the University on a kind of a maintenance agreement, because they actually
15:49:26 We're actually working right now with the University on a kind of a maintenance agreement, because they actually have their own crews for both of these systems to go out and work on them I told you guys we only have four guys on our storm water.
15:49:55 At the end of the day, they're permitted through the state or federal permitted through the state for water distribution. Our permits are a little bit different because we also make the water, not just distribute it, but their system at the university
15:51:20 And if there's more on the research and anything else, we're already doing the things we're already doing what we know we need to do to address major needs, which is nice and balanced beyond so many other municipalities, just being the science person
15:51:35 that I am I want to be more like let's keep working on what if I have somebody from the Washington County Health Department of my other class. And I get a very similar message from her which is like you know you're doing like 10 times more than most communities,
15:52:14 It takes a special kind of person to want to work for public service because you're doing everything you can but then the science part of us that know what we could do research we could do this.
15:52:25 And then you're like oh wait, that's not what we're supposed to do because we have our main goal of making sure people get clean water, that that's what the rates pay for, that's where the bills are paid on hand to find out so those partnerships come
15:52:59 think there's very, there's a lot of jealousy of what you guys have universe in your backyard, you have a we have a we have last two, but we kind of push each other university pushes us, we push the university.
